# Meeting Minutes - February 2, 2019

*Created by: Mike Badescu*


## Issues that we would like to hear / learn more about:

*includes suggestions received prior to the meeting*

- tidyverse, best practices, piping 
- containers, API, using Docker
- building packages
- forecasting, time-series
- data visualization: ggplot2, maybe 3D
- predictive analytics (x2)
- hackathon using open data from the U.S. government
- basic R tutorials
- how people in the industry use R
- applications at company level (x2) / challenges solved at work (x2)
    + "... steps they took and issues that had to work through; these could be 
    technical issues as well as issues with working with different teams."
- legal issues regarding R packages licensing
- r markdown 
- new features in RStudio (FOSS) products
- features in RStudio professional and Microsoft products
- R community: what are are the main R events, online resources, etc.
- Panel of experienced data scientists. Possible questions: 
    + "What skills do you see that need improving to become a better data scientist? 
    How did you start/grow your career?""
- Group discussion on a Kaggle dataset. 
    + "We could have a Kaggle problem chosen ahead of time. Have a facilitator 
    discuss some approaches to solving the problem. Give people some time to do 
    exploratory analysis and start working on their models. This is not a hackathon 
    as that is a big time commitment. This would fit into the normal 2-hour window. 
    The purpose would be to get people comfortable tackling Kaggle problems on 
    their own and forming teams to work on projects outside of the meetings.""


## Future Events

### Possible speakers

- Thomas Mock: markdown, workshop (?), R community, visualization
- Mike Badescu: caching (later in the year)
- Stephen Gardner: Data visualization
- Thomas Mock and Mike Badescu will reach to other possible speakers


### Mid-week session

- we should attempt at least one mid-week / evening session 
    + Jeff can present only during mid-week
- need to identify the best place to hold the event: North Dallas, downtown, etc.
- Hosting space: WeWork, other companies offering space
- We would like to know what resources are available for food, beverage, etc.


### Event format suggestions

- Lightning Talks: 20-30 minutes, give more people a voice
- Try other event format: 30 min arriving / networking / announcements; 1h lecture; 30 min Q&A, talk with others
- Nice to have: coffee / drinks / food


## Leadership Team (LT) / Working Groups (WG)

- No comments on the proposed LT description
- Maybe combine / overlap Planning and Strategy WG's
- People must volunteer to be part of WG or to present


### Hosting WG

- By default, David and Larry are part of this WG
- David will ask two other members to help with hosting
- Angel Velarde volunteered for this WG

### Planning WG

- Mike and Thomas volunteered for this WG

### Finance WG

- By default, Larry is part of this WG

### Strategy WG

- Mike, Thomas and Charles Nguyen volunteered for this WG


## Other suggestions

- When joining the R on MeetUp, ask people what they would like to learn more 
about - this can be a source of new topics
- When getting community input, focus on people attending the in-person meetings
(we do not have the resources to provide videos of the talks)
    + might be OK to send a few emails through MeetUp
    + use MeetUp polls before using any other survey tools 
- At the beginning of each meeting have a standard slide with the new resources:
    + GitHub, Slack, #rstats, wifi, etc. (maybe a few slides / rmarkdown hosted on github)


## Decisions

- Use Slack for LT / WG, but make it available to everybody (transparency)
- Use a GitHub repo for events, at least to link to presentations and files, etc.


_(please let me know if I made any mistakes or I missed anything)_
